---
layout: default
title: using s3_website to publish a website
---

[s2_website](https://github.com/laurilehmijoki/s3_website) is a solution for taking a folder of stuff and posting it to Amazon S3 and host a static website. It is meant to work with jekyll and 

Installing doesn't take much. `gem install s3_website`

`s3_website cfg create`
This generates a configuration file called `s3_website.yml`


Before we get to the YML we need to make a .env file. S3_website implements supports for reading environment variables from a file using the [dotenv](https://github.com/bkeepers/dotenv) gem. You can create a .env file in the project's root directory to take advantage of this feature.

Make sure to add `.env` to your .gitignore file in the git repo. This prevent the file from being published to Github where terrible things could happen to your security. Do this before you commit anything else and doubtl check the commit on github.

`.env` looks like this
{% highlight text %}
SHAZART_INFO_KEY=[AWS-KEY]
SHAZART_INFO_SECRET=[AWS-SECRET]
{% endhighlight %}

Next use that .env file in the `s3_website.yml` file. In this example I'm publishing to a bucket called shazart.info
{% highlight yaml %}
s3_id: <%= ENV['SHAZART_INFO_KEY'] %>
s3_secret: <%= ENV['SHAZART_INFO_SECRET'] %>
s3_bucket: shazart.info
{% endhighlight %}

Next `s3_website cfg apply` This will configure your bucket to function as an S3 website. If the bucket does not exist, the command will create it for you.

Next I used Jekyll to create a _site folder with all the assets required to upload to s3. To publish the _sites folder to jekyll I used `s3_website push`. Then the site is published to s3.

Now you should be done